[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: So one of the things you
guys are going to get more comfortable
with as we do this is dealing with
multi-dimensional collections.
In fact what you're going to
be doing is you're going to be
building many dimension collections and
then applying the right number of
flattens to flatten it back out into one.
And then calling for each and that is what
the exercise you're going to be doing
today are going to be drilling again and
again and again.
I'm gonna keep mapping, keep building
nested collections until I've got all
the data that I need in
scope through a closure.
So notice I've got,
well this is a bad example of that, but
that's what you'll be doing.
And then you'll be applying the right
flattening strategy the right number of
times to flatten it out into
a nice flattened collection again.
And then forEach over the result.
That is not a skill that comes
naturally to most people.
It needs to be drilled,
it needs to be repeated.
But once you've got it, you're only
gonna be learning five functions.
And you're gonna get the hang
of this way of programming.
And you're gonna be able to
apply it in a lot of places.
Maybe unexpected places, places even
beyond asynchronous programming.
So I'm really excited about that.
So I'm gonna go with over one example.
We're just gonna bump it
up to three dimensions now.
So the Netflix player.
Come on you can do this right
let's take a look at this
hornet's nest of code that I used to have.
Right we saw this earlier this is
the battle way of doing things right.
We have a asynchronous program
of the bunch of callbacks and
a bunch of state and all that stuff.
And we're gonna replace it with this.
So what are the collections I have?
What collection do I want?
And how am I gonna to get from A to B?
So what the collections I have
are that somebody clicked play.
Another collection is that
somebody hits cancel.
Another collection is that we
successfully authorized a movie request.
That's an observable of one that
comes back from the server.
Another collection is,
I think that's it, actually.
So, another collection is that
the player is initialized.
So the player could initialize
asynchronously, we could asynchronously
authorize a movie request, somebody could
hit a cancel button asynchronously.
I think those are the three ones.
Yes.
Those are the three collections.
So, if I express all those as observables
I can use these methods to compose them
together into the collection I want,
which is, movies to play.
I as the UI developer just wanna
create a nice little event that says,
play this movie play this movie,
play this movie.
And then I'll forEach over it and
I'll play the movie.
So what I've created is a stream
of authorized movie ID's.
Movie ID's that were successfully
authorized that some user tried to play
and once they're authorized I actually
want to go ahead and play them.
So we start with player dot init.
Player dot init just returns
observable that fires a single
value on next when it actually
successfully initializes.
Does that makes sense?
Such an observable one just
like thing that network across.
I call player dot init and
that could be back in observable and
that observable actually technically
when I call init it's gonna give me back
an observable that does
absolutely nothing.
Nothing's happened.
All I've done is create an observable,
observables are lazy.
So it's going to wait until I four each
over that observable to actually try and
initialize the player and
then it's going to complete.
After on nexting some sentinel value like
true like I finished as soon as that
player is initialized.
Does that makes sense?
So I call player dot init,
it gives me an observable,
not a damn thing has happened
then I call for each on it.
It actually then tries to
initialize the player and
once that player successfully initialized
it's going to call on next give me
some value like true and
then immediately call on completed.
Does that make sense?
I'm gonna map over that observable.
Notice it's an observable of one.
I don't care.
I'm still gonna map over it.
And when I get that value of true,
which I don't really care about, so
my function accepts no arguments.
I'm gonna then listen to all
of the attempts to play.
All of the user's
attempts to play forever.
So this actually gonna happened
at startup I'm gonna do this,
I'm gonna first listen for
the player to start initializing and
then all future attempts to play the
movie, I'm gonna listen for this stream.
That just means a click on
the play button on the player.
I'm just taken that click, that DOM event,
and I've adapted into an observable,
using observable frontend, so
that's what player attempts are.
I'm going to map over all those and
that's just a stream of movie
IDs that they try and click.
So, if they try to click Die Hard what
might come out is two, six, two, nine,
five, they try to like House
of Cards five, two, nine, one.
Then I'm going to call player.authorize
which is actually going to make a request
to the server and
just make sure that we can actually,
you're allowed to play this movie.
Cuz you're logged in and
that type of thing, right.
You're allowed to play the movie.
And it's going to come back
with a decryption key.
So we're going to take that stream of play
attempts of movie IDs and we're going to
map it into a stream of actual decryption
keys that we retrieve from the server.
Does that make sense?
That's just simple substitution.
For every movie ID we substituted for
a network request to get
back a decryption key.
So now how many levels deep are we?
I think we're three levels deep.
Because for every player initialization,
even though there's only gonna be one.
We're going to listen to all the play
attempts, but for every play attempt we're
going to issue a network request that'll
actually resolve with the decryption key.
So we're three levels deep.
And how do I know that?
Well, every single map function is
returning another observable here.
We have two map functions, each of
which is returning another observable.
So if the function paths to map
returns another observable you
know you're deepening
the collection by one level.
So we have a three dimensional observable
and that means we need at least two
flattening operations to flatten it back
out into a one dimensional observable.
So I always glance down
there at the bottom and
notice that there's two concatAlls.
So we've built a three dimensional
observable we applied to flattens to it
and we ended up with a one
dimensional observable.
And then at the end we just listen
to all the authorizations and
we just play it now I know I've got the.
So the authorizations is actually a stream
of that license that you see there is
actually the movie decryption key.
So I'm just slurping up the movie
decryption keys as they come along and
then I'm saying the player go
ahead now play this title.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Two questions, one is
cancels a custom stream that you made?
>> Jafar Husain: Yes, that's literally
the cancel button or the back button, for
example, that I've adapted
using Observable.frontend.
>> Speaker 2: And then Observable.empty,
what does that do?
>> Jafar Husain: Good question.
So just like you can now observables error
and so just like in in your language where
you have things like try catch you want
to be able to handle those errors.
Right.
If an observable errors you don't
always wanna complete the stream
immediately, they're just like in
synchronous programming, you can sometimes
catch errors and do something about them.
In this particular case I'm always
I just wanna listen for a play or
authorization all the time.
And if for whatever reason,
some attempt to access the server errored,
I don't want to make the whole
stream of authorizations end.
I basically, just wanna ignore it, right.
In this case, I'm going to return nothing,
meaning the play just won't work.
So you hit play,
that's probably not the best method,
we could probably do even better
than that, right, and be like,
actually display them the message, but
this is what I can fit on the slide.
So what catch does It takes an error,
excuse me,
It passes an error to a function and
that function can optionally return
an observable to resume from.
So instead of that error just
completing the observable.
Instead we can run that error through
a function create another observable and
the think of it is literally callcating
it onto the current observable, and so
we just start listening
to that observable now.
Which keeps the error from getting bubbled
up, and stopping the overall stream.
>> Jafar Husain: So in this case,
it's as if you did a catch, and
then there was nothing in
the body of the catch.
And so an observable empty is literally
an observable that just immediately
uncompletes when you subscribe to it.
So it's just a constant that will give
you an observable that always completes.
Right and but I'm now of course,
actually bad example here.
Down here I've got an error handler but
that error handler, I don't believe will
ever get get thrown because play attempts,
no it could get thrown if the player
initialization fails right.
So, if an error happens
on player initialization,
there's nothing I can do so
that error will bubble all the way up and
they will handle it and say sorry
you know can't play stuff right now.
>> Jafar Husain: Notice we're only
catching errors on attempts to authorize
a movie ticket.
We're not catching errors
on player initialization.
Notice where the catch
is it's very important.
It's only on that inner observable,
right, not on the outer observable.
So if a player fails to initialize,
we'll get an error.
We won't catch that.
So in Netflix [INAUDIBLE] we
use observable everywhere.
It's pretty much for
every single asynchronous actions
represented as observable.
Yeah, question?
>> Speaker 3: An example on, can we
have latest on switch play attempts?
>> Jafar Husain: Absolutely.
I'm glad somebody pointed that out any
time you see a, well actually,
no no actually I'm glad we can't,
I'm glad you pointed out because we can't.
Just because we've got, notice like in the
previous example we had like a take until
inside of that map function, and
a concat all on the outside.
That worked because the incoming
event that was creating observables,
was the same as the event that we
would want to use to switch to new
observables, right.
For every key press we
created a new observable and
then as soon I pressed another key we
wanted to use that event to cancel
the current observable in
this case that's not true.
We're listening to an entirely
different event then so
if you press play that event triggers
us making us network requests.
But it's entirely different event that
causes us to stop making the network
request which is cancel and
that's why I had to use play attempts map
returning the authorization observable.
And then I had to do take until on
cancels if I didn't take until on play
attempts then this would be
the same as switch latest.
So switching this only works when you want
to stop listening to an inner observable
based on the same condition that causes
you to get a new inner observable.
So if every single time I press a key I'm
gonna create a new network request, so
I therefore want to cancel
the current network request.
So initially this is great.
Because I can just you
take until key press and
the key presses are the same things
creating the new observable.
In this case I got two different events.
One is creating observables and
the other one is completing them.
So that's why I can't use switch latest.
I have to use map concatAll
with a take and til inside.
So for every observable I create,
I say, yeah only stop when
this other event happens.
But whenever this incoming event happens,
create a new observable.
So I'm glad that question was asked.
So switch latest only works when
the incoming event that creates
the observable, is the same event
we want to use to complete but
the current observable when
a new one comes along.
So a Netflix we use observable everywhere
for every single asynchronous API every
single asynchronous doesn't matter since a
single value doesn't matter if it sends us
a single value,
doesn't matter if it sends us 15 values.
Or whether it's a call back or
it's a web socket or
whatever we abstract it as an observable.
The very first thing we do is abstract it
as an observable and then we just treat
everything like it's a collection and
use these powerful data sources.
I recommend you do the exact same thing.
Any questions?
>> Speaker 3: Clarification why does
a generate an empty observable?
>> Jafar Husain: Technically it
generates an observable of one.
So it fires one because if it had to
generate an empty observable the map
function would never get called.
Right cuz the map function gets called for
every item in the stream.
So it actually just generates true and
then completed that might seem a little
weird but usually often things will do
that just so that they can be used along
with map because of an uncompleted
them the whole stream would complete.
>> Jafar Husain: So that notice that map
just ignores whatever comes inside of it
doesn't really care all it cares that
it got called that's how it knows that
the player was initialized.